Problem 12. What is a NoSQL Database?

A NoSQL database provides a mechanism for storage and retrieval of data that is modeled in means other than the 
tabular relations used in relational databases. Motivations for this approach include simplicity of design, 
horizontal scaling, and finer control over availability. The data structures used by NoSQL databases 
(e.g. key-value, graph, or document) differ from those used in relational databases, making some operations 
faster in NoSQL and others faster in relational databases. The particular suitability of a given NoSQL database 
depends on the problem it must solve.
NoSQL databases are increasingly used in big data and real-time web applications.
One of the NoSQL database types are:
- Document databases - pair each key with a complex data structure known as a document. Documents can contain 
many different key-value pairs, or key-array pairs, or even nested documents. Commonly used document databases
are:  MongoDB, Lotus Notes, Clusterpoint, Apache CouchDB;
- Graph stores - this kind of database is designed for data whose relations are well represented as a graph 
(elements interconnected with an undetermined number of relations between them). The kind of data could be 
social relations, public transport links, road maps or network topologies. Commonly used graph databases
are: Allegro, Neo4J, InfiniteGraph, OrientDB, Virtuoso, Stardog.
- Key-value stores - the simplest NoSQL databases. Use the associative array (also known as a map or dictionary) 
as their fundamental data model. In this model, data is represented as a collection of key-value pairs, 
such that each possible key appears at most once in the collection. Some key-value stores (such as Redis) allow 
each value to have a type, such as "integer", which adds functionality. Commonly used key-value databases are:  
Dynamo, FoundationDB, HyperDex, MemcacheDB, Redis, Riak.
- Wide-column stores - such as Cassandra and HBase are optimized for queries over large datasets, and store 
columns of data together, instead of rows.
