Problem 9. Pros and Cons of Using Indexes in a Database?

A database index is a data structure that improves the speed of data retrieval operations on a database table 
at the cost of additional writes and storage space to maintain the index data structure. Indexes are used to 
quickly locate data without having to search every row in a database table every time a database table is accessed. 
Indexes can be created using one or more columns of a database table. An index is a copy of select columns of data 
from a table that can be searched very efficiently that also includes a low-level disk block address or direct link 
to the complete row of data it was copied from.
There is clustered and non-clustered indexing methods. 
Clustering alters the data block into a certain distinct order to match the index, resulting in the row data being 
stored in order. Therefore, only one clustered index can be created on a given database table. Clustered indices can 
greatly increase overall speed of retrieval, but usually only where the data is accessed sequentially in the same or 
reverse order of the clustered index, or when a range of items is selected.
The B-tree is a tree data structure that keeps data sorted and allows searches, sequential access, insertions, 
and deletions in logarithmic time. The B-tree is a generalization of a binary search tree in that a node can have 
more than two children. Unlike self-balancing binary search trees, the B-tree is optimized for systems that read and 
write large blocks of data. B-trees are a good example of a data structure for external memory. It is commonly used 
in databases and filesystems.
A column-store index is a type of data structure that is used to store, manage and retrieve data that is stored in a 
columnar-style database.
Full text search refers to techniques for searching a single computer-stored document or a collection in a full text 
database. Full-text search is distinguished from searches based on metadata or on parts of the original texts represented 
in databases (such as titles, abstracts, selected sections, or bibliographical references). In a full-text search, 
a search engine examines all of the words in every stored document as it tries to match search criteria for example 
(text specified by a user). 
Spatial indices are used by spatial databases (databases which store information related to objects in space) to 
optimize spatial queries. They are used for indexing of geographical objects - shapes or objects that overlap in space. 
